First blog article version (#4)
NovatecConsulting/technologyconsulting-showcase-integrationdomain: blog_articles/using_a_secret_provider_with_kafka_connect.adoc

= (WIP) Using a Secret Provider with Kafka Connect
== Teaser

Kafka Connect, coming along with many pre-build Connectors, can be a useful addition to your Kafka cluster. The setup can be done within minutes - until you come to the point where you start thinking about security. What is the best way to handle my secrets in Connector configurations when I - of course- do not want to expose them in plaintext? In this blog article, we step through an example scenario where it will be shown why and when to use Kafka Connect and how to inject credentials into Connector configurations. We will see that there are some pitfalls to be aware of if the Connect setup is not to take much more time than originally estimated.

== Why and when should you use Kafka Connect?

> For better understanding, let's have a look at an example scenario: We assume that there is an existing system where one component is processing data that is needed by another component. This could be, for example, a domain that processes customer data and order information and writes it into a database. A webshop was later on added to our architecture and now needs the customer and order data. Of course, we could modify our order domain to pass the data directly to the webshop service. But first of all, in most cases, it will not be possible to modify existing systems. Second, we assume that there are plans to add additional web shop services, e.g. like Amazon or eBay, later on, that also need the same kind of data. To solve this, Kafka can serve as a central component from where all webshops will get their data from. Additionally, Kafka Connect makes it possible to get the customer and order data from the database into Kafka.

Reviewer: Basically explained well, but as a reader I would ask, why a webshop needs order data from another system. Wouldn't order data be something that the existing order domain needs from the webshop?
Order Domain -- Customer and Products --> Kafka -> Webshop -- Order --> Kafka -> Order Domain 
So, in this section you could maybe roughly describe the whole picture. You could maybe also extend the illustration with the entities (like customer). And I would also mention that the webshop could get the required data also via connect (depending on the API).

As shown in the below figure, the order domain, the database and Kafka Connect are running in Azure while the remaining part of the Kafka cluster is running in Confluent Cloud. Therefore, Kafka Connect needs to authenticate against the database and the Confluent Cloud cluster. The scenario was implemented as part of a showcase investigating how to use a Secret Provider for Kafka Connect. Feel free to have a look at the https://github.com/NovatecConsulting/technologyconsulting-showcase-integrationdomain[repository] and test the code by yourself!

image::architecture_overview.png[align=center]

== Kafka Connect and Confluent Cloud Authentication

> Authentication of Connect against Confluent Cloud is the "easy" part of this scenario: The https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/cp-component/connect-cloud-config.html#standalone-cluster[documentation] describes how to edit the worker properties file to enable a connection. Note the properties consumer.sasl.jaas.config and producer.sasl.jaas.config where the values contain your Confluent Cloud API-key and API-secret. Those values need to be injected externally, while the best approach to do this depends on your setup and deployment process. Within the https://github.com/NovatecConsulting/technologyconsulting-showcase-integrationdomain[showcase repository], this was done using a Github Actions pipeline which pulls those secrets from the Azure key vault and injects them into the helm values.yaml file. This approach is also shortly discussed at the end of this article.

Reviewer: Site node: the secret are actually not injected into the values.yaml file, but overriden by helm install command via the --set flag (https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_install/)

> Authentication of Connect against Confluent Cloud is the "easy" part of this scenario: The https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/cp-component/connect-cloud-config.html#standalone-cluster[documentation] describes how to edit the worker properties file to enable a connection. Note the properties consumer.sasl.jaas.config and producer.sasl.jaas.config where the values contain your Confluent Cloud API-key and API-secret. Those values need to be injected externally, while the best approach to do this depends on your setup and deployment process. Within the https://github.com/NovatecConsulting/technologyconsulting-showcase-integrationdomain[showcase repository], this was done using a Github Actions pipeline which pulls those secrets from the Azure key vault and injects them into the helm values.yaml file. This approach is also shortly discussed at the end of this article.

Reviewer: Besided consumer.sasl.jaas.config and producer.sasl.jaas.config there is also sasl.jaas.config.
sasl.jaas.config is used by Connect to access its own topic to store config and positions. The configs you mentioned are only used by the connectors itself.

> Connector Configuration and Secret Management

Reviewer: Is this a headline?

> https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/connect/index.html[Kafka Connect] is a framework that is using pre-build Connectors that enable to transfer data between sources and sinks and Kafka. There are https://www.confluent.io/hub/[about 200 official Connectors] that are available to access databases, key-value stores and file systems. A Kafka Connect Cluster consists of one or more Connectors of which the configurations are deployed via Kafka Connect's REST API.

Reviewer: I do not know of I would name them "offical connectors". This are official Confluent connectors. But actually Kafka Connect is independent of Confluent and part of Apache Kafka.

> https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/connect/index.html[Kafka Connect] is a framework that is using pre-build Connectors that enable to transfer data between sources and sinks and Kafka. There are https://www.confluent.io/hub/[about 200 official Connectors] that are available to access databases, key-value stores and file systems. A Kafka Connect Cluster consists of one or more Connectors of which the configurations are deployed via Kafka Connect's REST API.

Reviewer: A Kafka Connect Cluster consists of one or more Connectors:
--> You mean the connector plugin?
--> Maybe you can distinguish between the connector plugin and a connector instance (https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/connect/concepts.html#connectors)

image::connect_cluster.png[align=center]

The Connector's configuration will usually contain the credentials of the system you want to access, e.g., your database username and password:
PostgreSQL Sink Connector Configuration:

[source, json]
----
{
    "name": "postgres_sink",
    "config": {
        "connector.class": "io.confluent.connect.jdbc.JdbcSinkConnector",
        "tasks.max": 1,
        "topics": "example_topic",
        "connection.url": "jdbc:postgresql://example.postgres.database.azure.com:5432/db",
        "connection.user": "myDatabaseUser",
        "connection.password": "myDatabasePassword",
        "auto.create": "true",
        "table.name.format": "example_table",
        "dialect.name": "PostgreSqlDatabaseDialect",
        "db.timezone": "Europe/Berlin",
        "pk.mode": "record_key",
        "insert.mode": "upsert"
    }
}
----

> When researching online and reading tutorials, you will notice that most examples will look similar to this. Confluent's documentation also provides https://docs.confluent.io/kafka-connect-jdbc/current/source-connector/index.html#load-the-jdbc-source-connector[example configurations], but most of them without using any credentials or using them in plaintext. Clearly, for examples and learning, this is sufficient but not when running in production. First, the Connectors configuration can be accessed and read using a simple curl-command - making it readable for everybody who has access to the REST API. Second, usernames and passwords are objects to change from time to time - and you do not want to edit your code and redeploy it every time. And last and most obviously: you do not want to expose the credentials in your code repository.

Reviewer: Credentials not only change over time, but also may differ between stages.. so therefore the minimum requirement is that credentials must be configurable per stage/deployment. The credentials need therefore be maintained independent of the configuration. In addition as you also wrote it is important that users should be able to view the config, without to be able to see the credentials.

 +

> To work around this, it possible to template the JSON configurations. Sensitive configuration properties can be passed as environment variables, e.g., via a Github Actions pipeline. But this approach would assume that all connectors are already known at deployment and still, the credentials would be accessible via the REST API. Despite that, an increasing number of connectors in your cluster will increase the number of environment variables.

Reviewer: I thing you should separate this.

First you could template the config JSON. But this could be done separately during the deployment of the specific connector instance (if the plugin is installed). Therefore you do not need to know the credentials during deployment of the cluster. You could for example depending on the stage fetch credentials for a connector instance form Azure and template the json and finally deploy it via the REST API. But of course as you wrote, this would expose the password to users. 

What you cannot do is for example to use Kubernetes secrets or anything which would the credentials to be known during deployment time of the connect cluster itself.

As this must be a common issue, one could assume that there must be a better and easy solution for such an important topic. https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/KAFKA/KIP-297%3A+Externalizing+Secrets+for+Connect+Configurations[KIP-297] addressed this question and introduced externalizing secrets provided by the interface ConfigProvider and the implementation FileConfigProvider. There are also some examples available as provided in this https://rmoff.net/2019/05/24/putting-kafka-connect-passwords-in-a-separate-file-/-externalising-secrets/[blog article]. This approach seemed to be an acceptable solution but still not ideal: When most of the system's components are running in Azure and are accessing secrets using the Azure Key Vault, how to enable that also the Connectors are accessing the secrets from there at _runtime_? This would lead to a single access point for secret management and would enable to add Connectors later on.

> Lenses implemented the ConfigProvider interface as https://docs.lenses.io/3.1/connectors/secret-providers.html[Secret Provider], giving an answer for exactly this question. The Secret Provider can be added as a plugin to Kafka Connect's plugin path like the Connector JARs. In the following, we will use the Secret Provider in the context of the Azure Key Vault, but it can also be used with other cloud platforms and secret vaults.

Reviewer: Add a link to the most current version

To add the Secret Provider, we have to create a custom Docker image in which we add the Secret Provider to Connect's plugin path:

[source, dockerfile]
----
FROM confluentinc/cp-kafka-connect-base:5.5.1

ENV PLUGINS_DIR=/usr/share/confluent-hub-components/

RUN mkdir -p ${PLUGINS_DIR}/secret-provider \
&& wget -qP ${PLUGINS_DIR}/secret-provider https://github.com/lensesio/secret-provider/releases/download/2.1.6/secret-provider-2.1.6-all.jar
----

> If it is left like that, Kafka Connect would later fail with numerous exceptions. Kafka Connect uses the CUP tool at startup, which tries to access a class from the added jar. Since the class is not included in CUB's classpath, the check performed by this tool will fail and the startup will cancel. Therefore, we need to add to the Dockerfile:

Reviewer: I would describe was the CUP (Confluent Utility Belt) exactly is and why it will try to access the class.

Dockerfile

[source, dockerfile]
----
ENV CUB_CLASSPATH='"/etc/confluent/docker/docker-utils.jar:/usr/share/java/kafka/*:/usr/share/confluent-hub-components/secret-provider/*"'
----

> Testing this would still lead to exceptions: The current version of the Secret Provider and the newest version of Kafka are using conflicting Scala versions. To resolve this, there are only two options: Downgrading Kafka Connect to containing a suitable Scala version or updating the Secret Provider. If your Kafka cluster is already running and your deployment is dependent on a specific Kafka version, the first option will not be practicable for you. The latter option will be associated with much more effort. For simplicity, the Kafka version remains at 5.5.1 in this example.

Reviewer: I would mention that the problem (at this point) is only related to CUB. It tries to instantiate a AzueSecretProvider if it is configured and this fails because of Scala. Secret Provider uses Scala 2.12 and Confluent 6.0.0 2.13. 
I would also mention what updating secret provider means. Its basically requires a adjustment of the code of the secret provider itself.
Another option of course would be to adjust the image and remove the check (which is actually not important, I think).
I would also mention that it only occurs if Authenticated cluster is used, because only in this case the configuration is loaded.

Notes:
If this is resolved, of course, we have this problem too for Kafka Connect itself. However, because we use the Plugin mechanism (and the classpath), this problem does not occur. However, if we would use 6.0.0 and provide the secret provider only via the class path (and not the plugin path) it would also occur and fail with an exception (however it is what lenses recommends). It only works with 6.0.0 and newer if we use plugin path and classpath and do not load the secret provider with CUB.

> Two issues fixed, but this still sounds too easy? Like Lenses also mentions in the plugin's documentation, the HttpClient-class will not be pickup up correctly if the Secret Provider is only located in the plugin's path. Therefore, it needs to be included within the classpath.

Reviewer: With 5.5 it should also work if its only in CLASSPATH.
(You can test this if you want :) but I think this should work)

Dockerfile

[source, dockerfile]
----
ENV CONNECT_PLUGIN_PATH=/usr/share/java,/usr/share/confluent-hub-components/
ENV CLASSPATH=${PLUGINS_DIR}/secret-provider/*
----

> This issue will be fixed as soon as the new release of the Azure SDK will be published. Of course, this workaround is no clean solution and comes along with additional constraints. Read more details about this topic in this blog article (LINK). But for now, the summarized Dockerfile looks like this:

Reviewer: Is already released :) I also created already a pull request for lenses secret provider. Therefore we must wait until this pull request has been merged and a new secret provider has been released: https://github.com/lensesio/secret-provider/pull/27

ARG CONNECTORS="confluentinc/kafka-connect-jdbc:10.0.1"
RUN for c in ${CONNECTORS}; do confluent-hub install --no-prompt $c; done;
----
It is now possible to adjust the Connector configurations so that the credentials will not be visible in plaintext anymore. Username and password are picked up at runtime from the Azure Key Vault and are inserted into the configurations file:
PostgreSQL Sink Connector Configuration:

[source, json]
----
{
"name": "postgres_sink",
    "config": {
        "connector.class": "io.confluent.connect.jdbc.JdbcSinkConnector",
        "tasks.max": 1,
        "topics": "example_topic",
    "connection.url": "jdbc:postgresql://example.postgres.database.azure.com:5432/db",
    "connection.user": "${azure:vault-example.vault.azure.net:my-database-user}",
    "connection.password": "${azure:vault-example.vault.azure.net:my-database-password}",
    "auto.create": "true",
    "table.name.format": "example_table",
    "dialect.name": "PostgreSqlDatabaseDialect",
    "db.timezone": "Europe/Berlin",
    "pk.mode": "record_key",
    "insert.mode": "upsert"
    }
}
----

== Open Questions and Improvements

> Using the Kafka Connect Secret Provider comes along with some pitfalls. Those can be worked around as long as you are not using the latest Confluent version. The next release of the Azure SDK and an update of the Secret Provider will make the Secret Provider much easier to integrate into your project. +

Reviewer: But still, it cannot be used with CUB because of Scala. CUB does use the Kafka AdminClient which does not support plugin isolation.

= Using a Secret Provider with Kafka Connect
== Teaser

> Kafka Connect, coming along with many pre-build Connectors, can be a useful addition to your Kafka cluster. The setup can be done within minutes - until you come to the point where you start thinking about security. What is the best way to handle my secrets in Connector configurations when I - of course- do not want to expose them in plaintext? In this blog article, we step through an example scenario where it will be shown why and when to use Kafka Connect and how to inject credentials into Connector configurations. We will see that there are some pitfalls to be aware of if the Connect setup should not take much more time than estimated.

Reviewer 2: pre-built Connectors

image::architecture_overview.png[align=center]

== Kafka Connect and Confluent Cloud Authentication
Authentication of Connect against Confluent Cloud is the "easy" part of this scenario: The https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/cp-component/connect-cloud-config.html#standalone-cluster[documentation] describes how to edit the worker properties file to enable a connection. Note the properties consumer.sasl.jaas.config, producer.sasl.jaas.config and sasl.jaas.config where the values contain your Confluent Cloud API-key and API-secret. Those values need to be injected externally, while the best approach to do this depends on your setup and deployment process. Within the https://github.com/NovatecConsulting/technologyconsulting-showcase-integrationdomain[showcase repository], this was done using a Github Actions pipeline. The pipeline pulls those secrets from the Azure key vault and overrides them at the helm values.yaml file. This approach is also shortly discussed at the end of this article.

> == Connector Configuration and Secret Management

Reviewer 2: If I understand correctly, this section is about the connection between Kafka Connect and the database in Azure. I would rename it to be clearer and more fitting with the naming of the previous section `Kafka Connect and Confluent Cloud Authentication`

> https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/connect/index.html[Kafka Connect] is a framework that is using pre-build Connectors that enable to transfer data between sources and sinks and Kafka. For example, there are Connectors available at the websites of https://www.confluent.io/hub/[Confluent] and https://camel.apache.org/camel-kafka-connector/latest/reference/index.html[Camel] that can be used to access databases, key-value stores and file systems. A Kafka Connect Cluster consists of one or more connector instances of which the configurations are deployed via Kafka Connect's REST API. The classes that are used by these connector instances are defined in connector plugins. Therefore, to deploy a connector configuration, the connector plugin needs to be installed beforehand.

Reviewer 2: I would put the brief introduction of Kafka Connect maybe right in the beginning. I would also re-write this sentence to something like this, just to be clear about the functionality of Kafka Connector.
```suggestion
For example, there are Connectors available at the websites of https://www.confluent.io/hub/[Confluent] and https://camel.apache.org/camel-kafka-connector/latest/reference/index.html[Camel] that can be used to bridge Kafka with external systems such as databases, key-value stores and file systems. 
```

image::connect_cluster.png[align=center]

The Connector configuration will usually contain the credentials of the system you want to access, e.g., your database username and password:

[source, json]
----
{
    "name": "postgres_sink",
    "config": {
        "connector.class": "io.confluent.connect.jdbc.JdbcSinkConnector",
        "tasks.max": 1,
        "topics": "example_topic",
        "connection.url": "jdbc:postgresql://example.postgres.database.azure.com:5432/db",
        "connection.user": "myDatabaseUser",
        "connection.password": "myDatabasePassword",
        "auto.create": "true",
        "table.name.format": "example_table",
        "dialect.name": "PostgreSqlDatabaseDialect",
        "db.timezone": "Europe/Berlin",
        "pk.mode": "record_key",
        "insert.mode": "upsert"
    }
}
----

> When researching online and reading tutorials, you will notice that most examples will look similar to this. Confluent's documentation also provides https://docs.confluent.io/kafka-connect-jdbc/current/source-connector/index.html#load-the-jdbc-source-connector[example configurations], but most of them without using any credentials or using them in plaintext. Clearly, for examples and learning, this is sufficient but not when running in production. First, the Connectors configuration can be accessed and read using a simple curl-command - making it readable for everybody who has access to the REST API. Second, usernames and passwords are objects to change from time to time - and you do not want to edit your code and redeploy it whenever making changes. Additionally, credentials usually differ between stages, and therefore, need to be configurable per stage/deployment. And last and most obviously: The configuration should be accessible for users, but without exposing the credentials at the same time.

Reviewer 3: This sounds a bit as all the confluent-examples would not dig into production-scenarios. I'm not sure, if this is fact. For that reason I'd rather write something like "[...] most of them without using any credentials or using them in plaintext. Within this post I like to show configurations without having to have the credentials as plaintext because of obvious reasons like ..."

 +

> To work around this, it possible to template the JSON configurations. Sensitive configuration properties can be passed as environment variables, e.g., via a Github Actions pipeline. Depending on the stage, the credentials needed by the connector instance could be fetched from Azure and used within the templated JSON file. Nevertheless, the credentials would still be exposed via the REST API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To work around this, it is possible to template the JSON configurations. Sensitive configuration properties can be passed as environment variables, e.g., via a Github Actions pipeline. Depending on the stage, the credentials needed by the connector instance could be fetched from Azure and used within the templated JSON file. Nevertheless, the credentials would still be exposed via the REST API.
```

> As this must be a common issue, one could assume that there must be a better and easy solution for such an important topic. https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/KAFKA/KIP-297%3A+Externalizing+Secrets+for+Connect+Configurations[KIP-297] addressed this question and introduced externalizing secrets provided by the interface ConfigProvider and the implementation FileConfigProvider. There are also some examples available as provided in this https://rmoff.net/2019/05/24/putting-kafka-connect-passwords-in-a-separate-file-/-externalising-secrets/[blog article]. This approach seemed to be an acceptable solution but still not ideal: When most of the system's components are running in Azure and are accessing secrets using the Azure Key Vault, how to enable that also the Connectors are accessing the secrets from there at _runtime_? This would lead to a single access point for secret management and would enable to add Connectors later on.

Reviewer 2: Maybe it's a good idea to briefly explain what should be implemented with the interface ConfigProvider with just one or two sentences.

> Lenses implemented the ConfigProvider interface as https://docs.lenses.io/3.2/connectors/secret-providers.html[Secret Provider], answering exactly this question. The Secret Provider can be added as a plugin to Kafka Connect's plugin path like the Connector JARs. In the following, we will use the Secret Provider in the context of the Azure Key Vault, but it can also be used with other cloud platforms and secret vaults.

Reviewer: Is there a special reason for linking to an old secret provider release? 4.2 (https://docs.lenses.io/4.2/integrations/connectors/secret-providers/azure/) is the current one.

== Adding the Secret Provider

> First of all, before the Secret Provider is added, Kafka Connect needs to be configured to pick up the credentials from a ConfigProvider. To do this, the Kafka Connect worker configuration needs to be overwritten with some properties. Depending on your deployment process, this can be done by adding the properties as configurationOverrides within your helm values.yaml file. https://docs.lenses.io/3.1/connectors/secret-providers.html#configuration-options[Lenses' documentation] provides more details about this. Keep in mind that the Azure client id, secret id and tenant id are as well highly sensitive credentials and also need to be injected in some way. For example, it is possible to store those secrets as Github Secrets and override them via a Github Actions pipeline into the values.yaml file. Again, this is no perfect solution since the credentials will be written as plaintext into the values.yaml file, but they are at least not exposed within your code.

Reviewer: Again the question with regards to the version of the secret provider. Is there a need to link to the old version? If not I would reference to https://docs.lenses.io/4.2/integrations/connectors/secret-providers/azure/#configuring-the-plugin

> First of all, before the Secret Provider is added, Kafka Connect needs to be configured to pick up the credentials from a ConfigProvider. To do this, the Kafka Connect worker configuration needs to be overwritten with some properties. Depending on your deployment process, this can be done by adding the properties as configurationOverrides within your helm values.yaml file. https://docs.lenses.io/3.1/connectors/secret-providers.html#configuration-options[Lenses' documentation] provides more details about this. Keep in mind that the Azure client id, secret id and tenant id are as well highly sensitive credentials and also need to be injected in some way. For example, it is possible to store those secrets as Github Secrets and override them via a Github Actions pipeline into the values.yaml file. Again, this is no perfect solution since the credentials will be written as plaintext into the values.yaml file, but they are at least not exposed within your code.

Reviewer: "To do this, the Kafka Connect worker configuration needs to be overwritten with some properties." could be misunderstood. Connect worker properties can be also overridden by the connector configuration. Therefore I would not use "overwritten" in this context. I would just say the some worker properties need to be specified.

> To add the Secret Provider, we have to create a custom Docker image:

Reviewer: I would not write "have to". Instead I would say "we created a custom Docker image". You can also mount the jar file into the container.

[source, dockerfile]
----
FROM confluentinc/cp-kafka-connect-base:6.0.0

ENV PLUGINS_DIR=/usr/share/confluent-hub-components/

RUN mkdir -p ${PLUGINS_DIR}/secret-provider \
&& wget -qP ${PLUGINS_DIR}/secret-provider https://github.com/lensesio/secret-provider/releases/download/2.1.6/secret-provider-2.1.6-all.jar
----

> If it is left like that, Kafka Connect would later fail with numerous exceptions. Kafka Connect uses the CUP (Confluent Utility Belt) tool at startup, which checks for the Kafka cluster and the expected number of brokers being ready. Because the cluster is configured to require authentication (i.e., not using PLAINTEXT protocol), it is trying to load a class from the added JAR. Since the class is not included in CUB's classpath, the script will fail, and the startup will cancel. +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If it is left like that, Kafka Connect would later fail with numerous exceptions. Kafka Connect uses the CUB (Confluent Utility Belt) tool at startup, which checks for the Kafka cluster and the expected number of brokers being ready. Because the cluster is configured to require authentication (i.e., not using PLAINTEXT protocol), it is trying to load a class from the added JAR. Since the class is not included in CUB's classpath, the script will fail, and the startup will cancel. +
```

This can be worked around by adjusting the official image to not containing the performed check. This approach was also discussed within this https://github.com/confluentinc/cp-docker-images/issues/828[Github issue]. The failing check is located in the https://github.com/confluentinc/cp-docker-images/blob/5.4-preview/debian/kafka-connect-base/include/etc/confluent/docker/ensure[ensure script]. +
In case you decide on this option, you can skip the following few lines. Otherwise, some additional modifications are needed to use the CUB tool. First, CUB's classpath needs to be edited:

[source, dockerfile]
----
ENV CUB_CLASSPATH='"/etc/confluent/docker/docker-utils.jar:/usr/share/java/kafka/*:/usr/share/confluent-hub-components/secret-provider/*"'
----

> Testing this would still lead to exceptions: The current version of the Secret Provider and the newest version of the CUB tool in Kafka are using conflicting Scala versions. If configured, CUB will try to instantiate an AzureSecretProvider, which will fail because of the Secret Provider using Scala 2.12 and Confluent 6.0.0 using Scala 2.13. To resolve this, there are only two options: Downgrading Kafka Connect to containing a suitable Scala version or updating the Secret Provider. If your Kafka cluster is already running and your deployment is dependent on a specific Kafka version, the first approach will not be practicable for you. +

Reviewer: You wrote: "CUB will try to instantiate an AzureSecretProvider, which will fail because of the Secret Provider using Scala 2.12 and Confluent 6.0.0 using Scala 2.13."
However, in your code example you wrote: "FROM confluentinc/cp-kafka-connect-base:5.5.1"
So ja, with Confluent 6 it will fail, but not if someone uses your code example.
So maybe this could be confusing.
